Well, throughout his earthly ministry,
Jesus expressed and showed gratitude.
Let’s look at what we can learn
from what he said and what he did
as a thankful person.
First, Jesus’ heartfelt prayers of thanks
had an effect on others.
Consider what happened the day after Jesus
miraculously fed thousands
near Bethsaida along the Sea of Galilee.
At John 6:23, we read
that “boats from Tiberias . . . arrived
near the place where they ate the bread
after the Lord had given thanks.”
That added comment,
“after the Lord had given thanks,”
must be in there for a reason.
For one thing,
this tells us that the boats arrived
not just near the place
where a miracle had occurred the day before,
but it also tells us
that the boats arrived near the place
where the Lord had given thanks.
That fact was recorded under inspiration
many years later by the apostle John.
And this shows us that Jesus’ true disciples
saw and remembered more
than the miracle itself.
They also witnessed and remembered
Jesus’ heartfelt prayer of thanks.
No doubt Jesus’ disciples
followed his good example.
Let’s look at two of the many fine qualities
that Christians who imitate
Jesus’ good example display,
namely, courage and humility.
We begin with courage.
Jesus was moved by a deep sense of gratitude
to be courageous.
Why can we say this?
For one thing,
because of something that he said
during a very critical time for him.
You’ll recall
that in the garden of Gethsemane,
Jesus prayed out of great concern
over the reproach that his death
as one being charged
with blasphemy and sedition
would bring to his heavenly Father.
In fact, Jesus implored Jehovah
that a death of this sort
might pass away from him.
Yet, despite such intense feelings, he said:
“Not as I will, but as you will.”
What helped Jesus
to make that courageous statement,
knowing what it would lead to?
We find the answer in Hebrews 12:2,
where it says in part of Jesus
that “for the joy that was set before him
he endured a torture stake, despising shame.”
So, what helped Jesus
to accept God’s will for him?
“The joy that was set before him.”
That joy included his hope, yes,
but above all his privilege to honor Jehovah
by keeping his integrity.
No matter how much his enemies
opposed him, mocked him,
or tried to heap shame on him
and his heavenly Father,
Jesus put that out of his mind,
despising shame and finding joy.
“For the joy that was set before him”
he gratefully and courageously
accepted the privilege
of putting God’s will ahead of his own.
“Not as I will, but as you will,” he said.
Do God’s people today imitate
Jesus’ grateful and courageous example?
Absolutely!
Jesus’ true followers today
strive to do God’s will
despite threats of imprisonment,
actual imprisonment,
torture, verbal abuse,
loss of livelihood, and so forth.
And when our brothers
are unjustly imprisoned,
we do all that we can for them,
including speaking up in their behalf
and, of course, praying for them.
Like Jesus, gratitude for the privilege
to know and worship Jehovah
and for the blessing of serving
in this marvelous brotherhood that we have
should move us to have and show courage
in doing God’s will today.
And we allow gratitude, not shame,
to take root and grow within us.
The second quality
that we want to look at is this:
Grateful Christians are humble people.
Again, we’ll consider Jesus’ example.
Every miracle that he performed
and every teaching that he passed on
to his disciples
was carried out in humility.
Jesus never sought
to draw attention to himself, did he?
Instead, what do we see?
We see that he was grateful
for the privilege to serve others
and grateful for every positive response
that he saw in others.
And what he saw went beneath the surface.
With that in mind, think about what happened
during Jesus’ last evening
with his faithful apostles
when their imperfections
were on full display, you could say.
For instance, out of all of them,
only Jesus would wash the feet of the others.
Yet, despite this, Jesus saw what?
He saw the good in them,
and he was motivated
to do something extraordinary for them.
Take note of what Jesus saw in them
as we read Luke chapter 22,
and verses 28 and 29,
where Jesus said this to them:
“However, you are the ones
who have stuck with me in my trials;
“and I make a covenant with you,
“just as my Father has made
a covenant with me,
for a kingdom.”
What moved Jesus to do this for them?
Gratitude.
You see, Jesus saw the good in them
—didn’t he?—and he remembered it.
“You are the ones who have stuck with me
in my trials,” he said.
What a wonderful gift he was offering to them
by inviting them to share in his Kingdom,
and what outstanding humility he displayed
in doing this!
Jesus did not view himself
as so great in his own eyes
that he could overlook the good
that was in his disciples.
He was humble, he appreciated the good,
and he truly “loved them to the end.”
Do we likewise show humility and gratitude
though faced with the imperfections
of our brothers?
We must remember
that Jesus never overreacted
to the obvious faults of his disciples.
Instead, he was grateful for their support.
And he always looked for and found
—and found—the good in them.
We should want to do the same
for one another
—all of us need it.
In fact, we need one another
now more than ever, don’t we?
The gratitude that we feel
for being in pure worship
should move us to seek
the good in one another always.
Along with this, we should be moved
to reach out
and encourage one another
in any way that we can.
This includes giving sincere commendation
that stems from gratitude.
As Jesus said: “You are the ones
who have stuck with me in my trials.”
He was commending them,
acknowledging the good in them.
He was thankful for it.
We too should give sincere commendation
to others when appropriate
and do it out of gratitude.
We really mean it from the heart.
So, what have we considered this morning?
We looked
at how Jesus’ sincere prayers of thanks
were long remembered by his disciples.
In fact, his prayers were remembered
as much as his miracles.
As another example,
think of what we read at John 11:41,
where—when resurrecting Lazarus—
Jesus offered a prayer
and started off by saying: “Father,
I thank you that you have heard me.”
That resurrection was astounding!
But Jesus’ prayer of thanks
was also remembered.
We also reviewed how Christlike qualities,
such as courage and humility,
grow out of a grateful heart.
And we considered ways
in which we can show such qualities.
And Jehovah’s people
are definitely doing this.
The numbers that we hear about
of those now attending our meetings
are proof of the grateful spirit
found in God’s people
and in those who see the wisdom of returning
while there’s still time.
We don’t yet know
when this present world situation will end,
but we do know this:
Jehovah’s purpose will not fail.
Jehovah and his Son will make certain
that all causes for harm disappear forever.
And aren’t we grateful for that?
Our job is this:
We need to make certain
that we are ready to accept the opportunities
that may yet present themselves
in doing Jehovah’s will
before the complete end arrives.
This includes giving everything we’ve got
to help others come over to Jehovah’s side.
The gratitude and humility and the courage
that result from a thankful spirit
will help us to do this.